# Ecommerce Sales Analysis using PowerBI. 

Ecommerce Sales Analysis using Power BI enables businesses to visualize and analyze their online sales data through data integration, interactive visualizations, and real-time reporting. It empowers businesses to identify top-performing and low performing products, preffered shipping types with respect to region and many other categories to make informed decisions and enhance overall sales and profitability in the competitive ecommerce landscape.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


## About the dataset 

The dataset consists of 10 columns and 5001 rows having the following variables:
<li><b>customer_id</b>: Unique identifier assigned to each customer in the ecommerce system. </li> 
<li><b>customer_first_name & customer_last_name</b>: First & last name of the customer who made the purchase. </li> 
<li><b>category_name</b>: Category of product. </li>
<li><b>product_name</b>: Name of product. </li>
<li><b>customer_segment (Y/N)</b>: The segmentation of customers based on certain criteria. </li> 
<li><b>order_id</b>: Unique identifier assigned to each order.</li>
<li><b>days_for_shipment_scheduled</b>: The originally scheduled number of days for the order's shipment. </li>
<li><b>days_for_shipment_real</b>: The actual number of days taken for the order to be shipped. </li>
<li><b>order_item_discount</b>: The discount applied to the individual item within the order. </li>
<li><b>sales_per_order</b>: The total sales revenue generated by each order. </li>
<li><b>order_quantity</b>: The quantity of the product purchased in each order. </li>
<li><b>profit_per_order</b>: The profit earned from each order after deducting the cost of goods sold and other expenses. </li>			
